Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning.
Today we're just going to quickly cover off the variations of long short term memory architectures.
I think it's important so that you're at least aware that there are other alternatives to the list him
version that we looked at and that you might encounter them sometime in your work.
So here is the standard Elysium which we discussed it should be it should be pretty comfortable food
by now.
And now let's have a look at a couple of variations some variation of.
One is when you add peepholes.
So I'm just gonna go back again so you see these lines are added connecting these sigmoid activation
functions or these layer neural network layer operations additional input is being provided it's information
about the current state of the memory cell and that basically allows kind of like is that's why it's
called peephole allowance allows these decisions about devolves to be made with taking into account
what is actually sitting there in the memory modification number two is when you take these two valves
forget valve and the memory valve and you connect them.
So let's go back instead of having a separate decision for the memory valve.
Now you have a combined decision for the forget valve and the memory valve and basically when whenever
you add something into memory.
So whenever you close the memory off whenever this is zero this becomes the opposite one minus zero
becomes a once a you have to put something in if you put this if you make this a one or close to one
is becomes a zero and therefore you don't put anything in here you just keep the old memory so it just
makes sense to combine them sometimes and then another modification a very popular modification called
the gated recurring units G are used for short they what they do is they completely get rid of the C
pipeline as you can see the memory pipeline and they replace it with the H which is the hidden pipeline
which we had before at the bottom they just combined basically the two So now instead of having two
separate values one for the memory and one for the hidden state now you have one and it make it simplifies
things so it's probably a bit less flexible but in terms of how many things are being controlled and
monitored there there's actually less and and that's it and that's this is harder get it recurring you
and works as you can see it might look a bit more confused but in reality it is a bit simpler you only
have you know this this valve then you have another valve here another valve here and these two are
kind of a connected as well.
So this is in essence to get recurring unit the concept behind it is to get rid of the memory cell and
just have this one pipeline going through there that takes care of everything.
So there we go that's the three Elysium variations there's there's lots more other ones a good paper
to check out is called Alice stem a search space odyssey by Klaus Graf and others 2015.
So there they are compared quite a few different Alice jams you might like this research that they did.
So there we go.
That's a short intro into the alternative architectures of the Ellis team and I look forward to seeing
you next time.
Until then enjoy deep learning.